Lean Charter – ELS v1.1

Project Leader: Hari Ravuri	Project Sponsor(s): Adam Tice	Charter Author: Besam Khidhir
Assigned Teams:

•	Product Owner – Besam Khidhir 

•	Enterprise Logging Service Team
o	Besam Khidhir
o	Nick Price
o	Jena Peoples
o	George Sarr
o	Nithin Reddy Pasula
o	Jarrod Calhoun

Target Start Date:              2019-08-15
Target Completion Date:  2022-12-31
Estimated Budget:            CREDIT $2,500,000 (annual)
Funding Source:               Internal

Problem Statement:

The current ELS deployment does not meet industry best-practices for performance, reliability, cost and operations. We are spending $480,000 per month in AWS alone with a projected current growth that will conservatively exceed $600,000 per month by end-of-year. We do not have a QA or development environment so all changes are being made in production. We do not have a backup or DR plan. We cannot scale on demand. We are not monitoring our environment for performance or capacity problems. We do not prioritize the processing of data based on criticality or risk. We do not have granular access control for data. We do not have adequate visualization of data. These deficits all impact our ability to reduce risk in a meaningful and scalable way.

Deliverables:
1.	Reduction in monthly sustaining cost 
2.	Devops framework for managing environment (repository, automation, regression testing, orchestration)
3.	Development and QA environments
4.	Autoscaling ability
5.	Monitoring of stack for performance, availability and cost
6.	Backup and DR strategy
7.	Container integration
8.	Data residency and consolidation 
9.	Data lake migration from current block store to high performance object store
10.	Data tiering to prioritize critical logs
11.	Data RBAC with granular access control
12.	Data visualization via custom dashboards for all data types	Measures of Success:
1.	Reduction in current monthly costs by at least 50%
2.	Integrated testing and deployment workflow for patches and upgrades
3.	Ability to scale indexing and storage on demand
4.	Ability to measure and predict capacity requirements for both storage and compute
5.	Ability to restore service and perform a DR operation within defined RPO and RTO times
6.	Consolidation of global infrastructure to 2 regions with satellite log-receivers
7.	Centralization of all logs in high-performance data lake with granular RBAC and egress options to multiple end-points including indexing engines, data warehouses and analytics
8.	Dashboards for all common data types in place 
In Scope Efforts:
•	Retire existing production ELS 1.0 global environments and replace with new ELS 1.1 architecture in a phased approach using Devops framework and deployment of development and QA environments.
•	Archiving of existing indexed logs to meet retention requirements
•	Revisit existing log delivery to meet data onboarding guidelines

	Out of Scope Efforts:
•	Migration of existing logs into new production system
•	Migration of AWS cloud platform to GCP
•	Migration of Exabeam SIEM to ELS
•	Migration of existing Windows log forwarding from Splunk agents

Key Stakeholders:

List the Security Executives and Managers overseeing and leading the technology aspects of the Project.

1.	Ken McAfee
2.	Adam Tice
3.	Jerry Liu
Major Known Risks (including significant Assumptions) Identify obstacles that may cause the project to fail (refer to Risk Management Framework) 
•	Enterprise Logging Service team members are also level 3 support.
•	There is risk that support activities may pull resource off the project impacting delivery.
•	The project is dependent on the Business Units agreeing to cutover dates.
•	There is a risk target completion dates may change due to conflict with other activities.
Products or Services Affected: 
1.	Enterprise Logging Service (AWS, Elastic Search, Splunk)






REVISION HISTORY

Revision 	Date	Updated by	Description
1.0	2019-07-25	Besam Khidhir	Initial draft.
